INTRODUCTION

This program is written in Clipper. Therefore the run.dbf or any
other log you create with Runner's Log can be accessed if you have
Dbase III+ or a clone so you can further manipulate the information
or export it to other formats.  I am a business programmer and have
been running since I was twelve.  I ran the New York City Marathon
when I was 15 and used Jim Fixx's Daily Log & Calendar to track my
runs. At many times I wished there was some way to get averages for
the week, month, etc. and list my runs by certain criteria so I
developed the Runner's Log.  The program started out simple but
grew into a commercial venture. If you have any ideas for
improvements or additions drop me a note and maybe you'll see it in
an update.  Larry Hack, HACKSOFT Inc. 3139 US 31 N Niles,  MI 49120 
Telephone (219)282-3369 Work or:
          (219)232-5057 Home or:
          (616)683-7908 Contact    


EDITING

This is mainly useful when entering notes from selection #1 [Adding
runs to the Runner's Log]. The <end> key takes you to the end of
the line, the <Home> key takes you to the beginning of the line,
the <PgUp> key takes you to the top of the notes, the <PgDn> key to
the bottom. the <Ctrl> key plus Y erases to the end of the line and
the <Ctrl> key plus U erases the entire line.  Some of these
features are also available in selection #2 [Display or Print
Specific Runs].  With the calendar you can insert any date into the
field you are in.  The [Add Runs to the Runner's Log] defaults to
todays date.  If you press F2 when you are on the date field, you
can insert whatever date you choose.  Another good place to use the
calendar is from the [Browse Through Runs] when you want to search
for a particular date.  Move the cursor to the date field, press F3
to bring up the search box and then press F2 to bring up the
calendar.  Select the date you want to search for and press
<Enter>. Use the arrow keys to move between days, <PgDn> to move to
the next month, <PgUp> to move to the previous month, <Ctrl><PgDn>
to move to the next year, and <Ctrl><PgUp> to move to the previous
year. 


THE MAIN MENU

Use the arrow keys to highlight your selection and then press
<Enter>, or simply press the first letter or number corresponding
to that selection.  F1 brings up Help (where you are now), F2 pops
up a calender.  If you have a monochrome monitor and are having
trouble reading any of the screens, start Runner's Log by typing
RUNNER M at the dos prompt. This will force the program to
monochrome.


1  ADD RUNS TO THE RUNNER'S LOG
You will be presented with a screen that starts with the cursor on
the date field.  This field will contain that days date. Press
<Enter> to accept that date or change it to whatever date you want.
You can press F2 to bring up a calender and use the cursor keys to
select a date, <PgUp> to select previous month, <PgDn> to select
next month, <Ctrl> <PgUp> to select previous year <Ctrl> <PgDn> to
select the next year. Pressing <Enter> will put that date on the
calendar into the date field on the run you are entering. After
RACE enter T or F for true (yes, this is a race) or false (no it is
not a race).  The next two fields are the distance in either miles
or kilometer.  One of these must be entered, the other will be
calculated.  The next field is the time. You don't have to enter
anything here. If you don't, this runs time would not be averaged
when you select [Display or Print Specific Runs] or [Display or
Print All Runs] from the main menu. this ensures that you get an
accurate average. The runs are still listed and it's distance added
to the total distance. Next your asked if you want to enter your
splits. This is for each mile's or kilometer's time or accumulated
time. Next enter your weight.  This is used to figure your calorie
count. Then you can enter notes on the run like, weather, where you
ran, thoughts, etc.  Then your asked if you want to store the run
to the Runner's Log. If you type "N" the run will not be stored.
This allows for a "What-if", so you can test certain situations and
get an average pace. 


2  DISPLAY OR PRINT SPECIFIC RUNS

This selection gives you a screen that you "fill in the blanks" to
get a list of any combination of runs and their total combined
distance and average pace. You can select from distance, ie; runs
between 5 and 10 miles, Time, ie; under 1 hour, Dates, ie; all runs
in June, 1989, And pace. You can select runs from any combination
of these items. In front of the item is a 1 space field that you
can place an operator. Greater than >, less than <, equal =, not
equal # or press <Enter> for no search on that field. Pressing
<Enter> for every field would give you every run.  You are then
asked if you want the list for 1)Races 2)Workouts or 3) both.
Simply select the one that you want. You may also have the list
sorted by fastest to slowest average times. You can have the report
sent to the screen or the screen and printer. 


3  DISPLAY OR PRINT ALL RUNS

Displays all runs, the date, their total distance, time, average
pace, and if it is a race. 


4  DISPLAY OR PRINT BEST TIMES

You are asked here if you want the list for 1)Races 2)Workouts or 
3)both.  Simply select the one that you want.  At the next prompt
enter the distance that you want to see your best runs for.  Next,
select the number of runs you want listed (the default is 10)  You
will then be asked if you want a printed report also.  Type either
"Y" or "N" for yes or no.  It will show you your fastest runs of
that distance in order from fastest to slowest. For instance, if
you entered 8 you would get a list of your top 8 mile runs and the
record number, date, time, and pace for those runs in order from
fastest to slowest to either the screen or the screen and printer. 


5  PAGE THROUGH RUNS

This is the most powerful option of Runner's Log.  From here you
can browse through your runs, search on any field, tag runs for
reporting, copying to another log, or deleting. Pressing <Enter>
will switch you to a full screen edit of that run. Be careful, any
of the data you change on this screen is permanent! When you select
number 2 [Display or Print Specific Runs] from the main menu, the
runs you select to display or print will be marked with a 'tag'. 
For instance, if you select all 5 miles runs that are under 35
minutes, when you go into [Browse Through Runs], the first field
'Tag' will be marked with a û for those runs.  You can add or
remove a run from being tagged by moving the hilight bar to that
run and pressing the space bar.  As shown on the help box at the
bottom of the screen, <Ctrl> T will tag all runs and <Ctrl> U will
untag all runs.  The Search Box (F3) works differently depending on
what field the hilight bar is on.  If you are on the date field and
press F3 and type in 05/23/90, the hilight bar will move to the
first run it finds on that date or on the last run of your log if
that date does not exist.  If you search on the distance however,
it will set a 'filter' to all runs of that distance.  That filter
will stay in effect until you press the F3 key again.  You can
leave the Search Box blank for no filter.  You can search on any
field on this screen by moving the hilight bar to the field you
want to search on and press F3.  Pressing F4 will give you a
display or printout of all tagged runs.  Pressing F5 will allow you
to copy all the tagged runs to a separate log.  You might want to
do this to keep a separate log for each year as well as a complete
log of all your runs.  Example; If you wanted a separate log of all
your runs in 1989 you could select #2 [Display or Print Specific
Runs] from the main menu, enter > for the first Operator, 12/31/88
for the Starting Date, < for the Second Operator, and 01/01/90 for
the Ending Date.  When you return to "Page through Runs" all runs
in 1989 are tagged.  Press F5, type 1989 or any other name you want
to give the log. It must be 8 characters or less, don't add an
extension.  If you want to remove those records from your main log,
press F7.  You will be asked if you want to delete the run the
hilight bar is on, or all tagged.  You can resize the 'Browse Box'
and move it anywhere on the screen as well.  To resize the box, use
the numeric keypad with num-lock on.  8 increase the height of the
box 2 decreases the height 6 increase the width of the box 4
decreases the width  To move the box, turn caps lock on.  U moves
the box up D moves the box down R moves the box right L moves the
box left  S saves coordinates to the util.dbf 

6  CREATE OR LOAD NEW LOG

Select either "Create New Log" or "Load New Log".   For creating a
new log, type in the name you want to give it.  The new log will be
created in your current drive and directory.  Note: Do not include
an extension.  For loading a log, type in the path where your logs
are located.  Such as; 'a:\' or 'c:\logs\'.  If you leave it blank
Runner's Log will look in the current directory.  A pop-up box with
all files in that directory with a .dbf extension will let you pick
and choose the log you want.  This feature is nice if you want to
keep a separate log for each year. The program will run faster this
way and it also keeps the logs from growing too big.  It's also
nice for keeping logs for separate individuals like a club or team.
Remember: The default log called "RUN" is always loaded when you
start "Runner's Log".  The log that is in use is displayed at the
top of the main menu. 


7  DISPLAY OR PRINT GRAPHICS

Select Line, Line/Bar, or Configure. Line will display a line chart
for both average pace and distance. Line/Bar will display a line
chart for the average pace and a bar chart for the distance. 
Configure allows you to select text to be displayed for the title
and whether to use miles or kilometers for graphing.  There are two
buttons at the top of the screen, Print, and Exit.  If you have a
mouse you can click on the button or you can press the underlined
letter. P for print to run.pcx (PC Paintbrush file), X for exit. 
[Display or Print Graphics] will graph all runs that are 'tagged'.
Runs are tagged when they are printed from [Display or Print
Specific Runs], [Display or Print All Runs], or they can also be
tagged from [Browse Through Runs]. See help for [Browse Through
Runs].


8  EXIT RUNNER'S LOG

Returns you to the operating system prompt.
